.TH conserve 1 "November 28, 2013" "version 0.2" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
Conserve - is a linux backup utility.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B conserve
[OPTIONS]... -s SOURCE -d DEST
.br
.B conserve
[OPTIONS]... -b -D DEST
.SH DESCRIPTION
Conserve is designed to use LVM snapshots and 'dd' to create images of partitions. But it can backup files and non-LVM partitions too. It is written on Ruby.

Conserve can do:
.TP
1. Backup block devices with LVM snapshots and dd.
.TP
2. Backup MBR.
.TP
3. Backup files from LVM snapshot or from "live" fs.
.TP
4. Backup files using rsync.
.TP
5. Backup to SMB(CIFS) or NFS share.
.TP
6. Collect information useful on restore.
.TP
7. Find out what to backup for bare metal restore.
.TP
8. Send report by email.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-baremetal\fR
detect what to backup automatically;
.br
backups only devices from fstab;
.br
you have to point destination folder to store backup files;
.br
option --collect used automatically.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-exclude\fR \fBDEVICE1[,DEVICE2,..,DEVICEn]\fR
exclude devices from baremetal backup;
.br
device name must be at "normal device name" format. For example,
.br
"/dev/vg/lv". List of devices shoud be comma separated without spaces.
.TP
\fB\-\-no-lvm\fR
do not use LVM snapshot.
.TP
\fB\-z\fR, \fB\-\-gzip\fR
Archive block device image by gzip or tar and gzip files when backuping non block device.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-log\fR \fBFILE\fR
full path to logfile. Redirects conserve output to a file.
.TP
\fB\-\-mbr\fR
.br
Backup MBR from device pointed like source.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-plain\fR
backup files without tar as plain tree.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-source\fR \fBSOURCE1[,SOURCE2,'*']\fR
full path to block device, file or directory to backup;
.br
/dir/file, /dir, /dev/blockdev - you can specify multiple sources as comma-separated list;
.br
\'/dir/*\' can be used to backup all directory entries as individual sources. WARNING - BUG: use it only inside quotes.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-rsync_options\fR \fBOPT1[,OPT2,..,OPTn]\fR
any rsync options that you like; Default "-hru" will be overrided. "-v" can't be overrided.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-dest_file\fR \fBFILE\fR
full file path where to store backup;
.br
types: smb, nfs, rsync;
.br
existing file will be overwrited;
.br
(in development) if source is number of files than all backup files will be added to "destination.tar" file;
.br
rsync: -d equals to -D;
.br
rsync: using / at the end of source path affects destination, use man rsync to learn more.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-dest_dir\fR \fBDIR\fR
full directory path where to store backup;
.br
types: smb, nfs, rsync;
.br
if target directory not found it will be created, but only one level;
.br
backup files names will be constructed from sources names;
.br
rsync: -d equals to -D;
.br
rsync: using / at the end of source path affects destination, use man rsync to learn more.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mount_dir\fR \fBDIR\fR
root for temporary directories used to mount network shares or LVM snapshots ("/mnt" by default).
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-credential\fR \fBFILE\fR
full path to file with smb credentials. File format as for cifs mount.
.TP
\fB\-\-collect\fR \fBPATH\fR
PATH can be FILE or DIR;
.br
store information about system;
.br
by default path to the file will be "/destination_dir/fqdn.info".
.br
if you want to save information to other file you can use it like --collect "/dir".
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-inform\fR \rBFILE\fR
Inform about backup status as described at config file;
.br
If no config file found it will be created.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-job_name\fR \fBNAME\fR
Set display name for backup job.
.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Show mode information about code errors.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show help.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by nixargh <nixargh@gmail.com>
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Conserver project at GitHub: <https://github.com/nixargh/conserve/issues>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2013  nixargh <nixargh@gmail.com>
.br
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.br
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
.br
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html.
